23 August 2000At its meeting today, Cabinet noted developments in Zimbabwe with regard to the land reform programme; and it reiterated the commitment of the South African government to continue dialogue with the Zimbabwean government in pursuit of economic recovery and social stability. Cabinet was briefed on the participation of government at the National Conference on Racism. The Conference will be opened by the President, and government Ministers will take part in various sessions to share their views on the need for speedier transformation of South African society. Cabinet noted with concern the illness of Minister Joe Nhlanhla; and it expressed appreciation at the progress he was making towards full recovery. The meeting adopted a draft Policy on the Future of the Private Security Industry. It also approved the Security Industry Regulation Bill, which introduces new regulations, sets standards and structures to ensure the industry as a whole operates in the public interest. Cabinet received a briefing on progress with the initiation of a pilot savings scheme attached to lending for housing. It also approved the establishment of a National Housing Rental Development Entity to promote the delivery of rental housing. The meeting approved the extension of fishing rights awarded for commercial fishing for the 2000 fishing season to 2001. It also noted the process that has been initiated to ensure more focussed attention to this industry, including the development of a policy framework for allocating fishing rights. The following Bills were approved for submission to Parliament: The meeting approved the structures and further interventions to speed up the Wild Coast Spatial Development Initiative. It also approved for submission to Parliament, the Protocol on the Development of Tourism in SADC, so that SA could formally accede to the Protocol. The following appointments were made: Enquiries Joel Netshitenzhe Cell: 082 900 0083 Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS)top