7 March 2000Government Communication and Information System (GCIS), Northern Province government, the community of Kgautswane and other stakeholders will launch Kgautswane Multi-purpose Community Centre (MPCC) on Friday 10 March 2000. (see programme) The Minister in the Presidency, Dr Essop Pahad, will deliver a keynote address. The Northern Province Premier, Ngoako Ramatlhodi and the Minister of Public Works, Stella Siqcau, will be among dignitaries attending.Multi-purpose Community Centres (MPCCs) are government s strategic one-stop information centres aimed at providing communities with government information on their rights and obligations as citizens. From this knowledge, citizens will be able to access information on specific campaigns, activities and the policies of government. The government also will be able to assess the information needs of communities and develop ways of meeting them. It will also identify media for each area and use them accordingly to meet the identified information needs.Formerly disadvantaged communities in rural, peri-urban and urban areas will now be able to access government information from MPCCs. These centres are the result of partnerships struck between NGOs, CBOs the private sector, national, provincial, and local governments. Through this effort, the government s main priority of creating an integrated, accountable service delivery system will be fulfilled.In his Parliamentary address of 25 June 1999, President Mbeki said, "The integration we seek must, for instance, ensure that when a clinic is built, there should be a road to access it. It must be electrified and have piped water". The aim of government is to provide all government information from a central point within a particular community. Government Information Centres (GICs), staffed by multi-skilled persons within MPCCs will provide a wide range of information on government.Enquiries Mack Lewele Tel: 012 314 2175Lolo Maphophe Tel: 012 314 2148 Cell: 082 474 0107 Fax: 012 326 0317Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS)