12 April 2000Cabinet was today briefed on the work of the Command Centre dealing with reconstruction in the areas affected by the flood disaster. Progress has been made with regard to identifying and attending to priority areas; and issues of funding across departmental budgets are being resolved. Long-term issues, such as relocation of communities, construction of dams, quality of infrastructure, including roads and bridges, are also receiving attention both with South Africa and in the consultations with SADC members. The Command Centre will give a detailed briefing on these issues in due course. The meeting was briefed on the preparations for the State Visit by President Jiang Zemin of the PRC from 24 to 27 April, including the various bilateral issues pertaining to trade and investment. The meeting also reviewed preparations for the Second Session of the Bi-National Commission with Nigeria which takes place from 26 to 29 April. The following appointments were either noted or approved: Cabinet was briefed on the financial position of the Government Employees Pension Fund for the financial year ending 31 March 2000. It was noted that, in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (GAAP) and Rules of the Fund, these were the first ever set of unqualified financial statements for the fund since its establishment in May 1996. Cabinet approved South Africa s accession to membership of the Group of 24 on international monetary affairs (G-24 now G-27) at the invitation of the Chairperson. This body deals with the harmonisation of monetary policy among developing countries and their contribution to the work of the Bretton Woods institutions. As part of the restructuring of the South African Post Office Limited (SAPOL), Cabinet approved new Articles and Memorandum of Association for the Post Office. The following Bills were approved for submission to Parliament: Cabinet was briefed on recent developments in the national cricket team. Government concurs with the United Cricket Board that a Commission of Inquiry, headed by a Judge, should be set up to examine allegations made against the cricketers. Such a Commission will be required to work expeditiously, and where necessary, consult with the Indian authorities. While an element of this problem has been dealt with in the acknowledgement made yesterday, the South African government does not have any intention to protect or prejudice any suspects in alleged criminal conduct during the recent Indian tour. Government will co-operate fully with the Indian authorities and the International Cricket Council, because it is our conviction that these investigations should help more comprehensively to deal with an unfortunate trend in the sport, and restore public confidence in South Africa and international cricket. Cabinet gave approval for Eskom to continue with a detailed feasibility study on the Pebble Bed Modular Reactor (PBMR). This will also allow Eskom to proceed with an environmental impact assessment for which public consultation is required. Cabinet approval will further be required before the Project proceeds to the next phase: i.e. construction of a demonstration plant and nuclear commissioning. Enquiries Joel Netshitenzhe Cell: 082 900 0083 Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS) 1. Adv NK Dukada Advocate Nceba Kirby Dukada, is a practising advocate in Umtata. He is presently an Executive member of the Society of Advocates of Transkei. He holds an LLB degree from the University of Natal and has served as a Public Prosecutor, Magistrate, and also worked in the Small Claims Court and the Legal Aid Clinic. He is also, amongst others, a member of the National Lotteries Board, Executive Member of the Black Management Forum, Transkei Region and serves as Executive Member of the Juvenile Justice Forum. 2. Dr RJ Koch Dr Robert Julius Koch who is a practising Actuary, with B Sc (Hons) also holding an LLD, is a member of the Actuarial Society of South Africa. He has spent extensive years both in Scotland and then South Africa as a life-office actuary setting premium rates and testing life-office solvency. He served as a Board member of the previous RAF Board. 3. Mr MM Mahlangu Mr Moses Mpiyakhe Mahlangu is the founder and chairperson of Kusile Self Help Association for the Disabled. He is a paraplegic. Amongst others he is also a member of the National Consumer Forum and Member of the Maputo Development Steering Committee. He holds a post matric Business Management certificate. 4. Mr GSS Maluleke M. George Sammy Shane Maluleke is a practising attorney and member of the National Executive of the Black Lawyers Association. He is also currently serving as chairperson of the Law Society of S A Standing Committee on MVA matters and is chairperson of the Board of Trustees of Legal Education Centre of Black Lawyers Association, amongst others. 5. Prof NC Manganyi Prof Noel Chabani Manganyi is a registered clinical psychologist and academic who has extensive service and contribution to both the medical and academic fields and he subsequently received awards, within the country and internationally, for his contributions in the same fields. He is the writer of a number of publications on some fields. He retired as Director-General of the National Department of Education. 6. Prof MS Mokgokong Prof Mochichi Samuel Mokgokong is both a neurosurgeon and academic who is also engaged with community matters in both academic and medical fields. Prof. Mokgokong has written a number of papers as a contribution to the medical field, especially on topics relating to head injuries. He has been involved in evaluation of medicolegal cases dealing with motor vehicle accidents. 7. Adv HK Naidu Advocate H Kessie Naidu is a practising senior counsel serving in Chambers in Durban. He has extensive legal experience in dealing with victims from the historically disadvantaged communities. Adv. Naidu has also been engaged with legal defence on an international level. 8. Adv C Qunta Adv Christine Qunta is a practising attorney. She has served in other SADC member states, in different legal firms in her capacity as a lawyer. She has also been invited for lecture tours of Universities in the USA. Adv. Qunta has previously also served as a member to the Competition Board, member to the Advisory Committee on Long Term Insurance, and has presented papers on women s issues. 9. Ms RE Rudman Ms Sonia Elizabeth Rudman is a professional nurse who has served as a nurse in the Health and Accident Insurance Industry. She has also been a manager, and underwriter, in the insurance industry. Ms. Rudman served in the previous RAF Board. 10. Mr RE Scholtz Mr Robin Eduard Scholtz is the General Manager: Public Affairs in the Automobile Association of South Africa (AA). He has served and has extensive exposure and experience of the road traffic safety field both as a member of varying Statutory Boards at national and provincial government level. 11. Mr AD Twine Mr AD Twine (Tony) is a Senior Economist and currently serves as Director of Econometrix (Pty) Ltd. He has been involved in research work on fuel (petrol and diesel) demand models and also on vehicle movements with focus on passenger motor transport. Mr Twine served in the previous RAF Board. Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS)top