29 February 2000Cabinet held its regular meeting today, at which it reviewed a number of issues arising from the recent Cabinet lekgotla, some of which will inform the President's State of the Nation Address. Cabinet agreed on the modus operandi of the President's co-ordinating Council - which brings together the President and Provincial Premiers - and it further resolved that the Intergovernmental Forum be replaced by an annual Intergovernmental Conference. The meeting was informed of the plans for the opening of the Nelson Mandela Museum on 11 February. As part of the campaign against HIV/AIDS,. South Africa will, during International Condom Week (14 - 21 February) conduct an Intensive "Campaign on Sexually Transmitted Diseases". Cabinet was briefed on the on-coming visit to our country by the FIFA Technical Team, which is preparing for the selection of the host to the 2006 Soccer World Cup Tournament. Cabinet reiterated its full support to the Bid Committee; and government will offer any assistance possible to SAFA during this visit. The following appointments were made: The meeting noted preparations for South Africa's participation at the 2000 SADC Council of Ministers and Consultative Conference in mid-February. This Council is of particular importance because it will consider among other issues the creation of a sector on social development and conduct a review of SADC institutions. The following statutes were approved for submission to Parliament: The meeting noted a comprehensive report on the smooth Y2K rollover that South Africa experienced in the transition to the Year 2000. In particular, Cabinet welcomed the excellent co-operation in this effort between the public and private sectors. The Joint Inter-Ministerial Committee has been disbanded, and other fora will be found to attend to any relevant matters that may arise in the future. Cabinet was briefed on plans for the National Water Week, and the roles Ministers and Deputy Ministers will be expected to play. Enquiries Joel Netshitenzhe Cell: 082 900 0083 Issued by: Government Communications (GCIS)top